MWC 2010 remote display demo set up instructions - Mac OS X 10.6
----------------------------------------------------------------

Setting up the demo on a Mac is easier than on the Linux laptop, but has a few
caveats: 1) The demo will only run on a Mac OS X 10.6 system (Snow Leopard);
and, 2) the Bluetooth proximity detection is considerably more sensitive and
less tunable since Proximity.app detects proximity by paging the device and
seeing if it responds, instead of making a connection and monitoring the RSSI
(Received Signal Strength Indicator) as BlueProximity does.  You will usually
have to walk some 30 feet away to move out of proximity.

If you are not interested in Bluetooth proximity detection, you can ignore all
the instructions about Bluetooth setup.  Since Proximity.app does not actually
make a Bluetooth connection to the phone, there is no need to pair the phone
to the laptop anyway.  All the setup needs is the Bluetooth MAC address of the
phone and its IP address.

The demo is deployed on a compressed disk image, Remote Display Demo.dmg,
built into the build/Darwin directory.  This disk image can be copied to
anywhere on the OS X 10.6 file system and mounted by double-clicking on it.
Inside the mounted disk are three applications: Remote Demo Setup.app,
Proximity.app, and remote-jblend.app.  These apps are described in the
document programs-mac.txt.

The apps don't need to copied to anywhere else in the system, though you may
prefer to copy them to your Applications directory.  You should be able to run
them directly out of the mounted disk image.

To set up the demo for a specific phone, run Remote Display Setup.app by
double-clicking on it.  It will ask you for the phone's Bluetooth MAC address
and IP address, unless you are only running the Slide Presentation demo, which
doesn't use Bluetooth proximity detection.  It may also ask you to enable
access for assistive devices so that GUI scripting can be activated; in that
case you'll have to cancel out of the setup, enable the access, and then
re-run the setup.

You'll also get a chance to set up an ad-hoc WiFi network in case a managed
WiFi access point is not available.  This is somewhat unreliable however; the
network set up must be scripted through the GUI, which is a fairly fragile
process, and Bluetooth paging interferes with ad-hoc WiFi networking, making
getting a connection pretty random.  Some phones don't connect very well to
ad-hoc networks to begin with either.  GUI scripting failure during the ad-hoc
network setup is not uncommon; if that happens you can usually recover by
re-running the setup.  If you have access to a managed WiFi access point at
the demo site you should use it.

Once the setup is run for a specific phone and network, you can run the demo
by launching Proximity.app, or launch remote-jblend.app directly, or just
re-run the setup.  If you need to use another phone or network you'll have to
re-run the setup again.  All the configuration is stored in the Mac OS X
defaults database.
