---------------
remote-jblend and demotest are cross-platform and run as described in
programs-linux.txt.  They are built into build/Darwin/bin and can only be run
if the GTK-OSX jhbuild system has been installed on the Mac.  remote-jblend is
bundled into a Mac OS X app bundle named "remote-jblend.app" and is built into
the build/Darwin directory.  It is self-contained and should run on any Mac OS
X 10.6 machine.  The demotest program is not bundled.

In addition, there are two other app bundles included with the Mac build:
Proximity.app and Remote Display Setup.app.

Proximity.app monitors Bluetooth proximity to a specified phone, launches the
remote display when it is in proximity, and kills it when it goes out of
proximity.  It is modified version of the open source application available on
the Internet, hacked to accept Bluetooth MAC addresses directly without using
the GUI, and also modifies the proximity detection to be somewhat less
sensitive.  To modify and build it you will need to use Xcode.

Proximity.app detects proximity simply by trying to connect to the phone
through bluetooth.  It doesn't use the RSSI (Received Signal Strength
Indicator) that BlueProximity on Linux uses, so it doesn't required a paired
phone.  However, the proximity detection is less reliable and tunable as a
result.

Remote Display Setup.app is an AppleScript application which gets the required
phone information from the user, offers to set up an ad-hoc WiFi network if
desired, and then launches Proximity.app.  It must be run whenever a new phone
needs to be used with the demo.  Once it is run then the demo can be launched
by running remote-jblend.app directly, or Proximity.app can be run to launch
the remote display based on proximity.  It can also be used to start the demo
after the phone has been set up by just accepting all the defaults.

----------------
If you have the GTK-OSX jhbuild system installed, you can do a quick test of
remote-jblend.app without a phone or Bluetooth proximity:

1) Run Remote Display Setup and specify:
   - small or large dashboard
   - no ad-hoc WiFi
   - use the Mac's IP address instead of the phone
   - enter an arbitrary Bluetooth address
   - don't launch Proximity.app
   - run the remote display to start the demo

2) In a Terminal or shell, change directory to build/Darwin/bin.

3) Run ./demotest -p 9999

4) ctrl-C to quit
